[South-Lebanon, 2006]
There are plenty of sub-munitions around here.
Yes, we’ve seen a lot of that kind here.
Up to 4 million sub-munitions delivered in 5 weeks
Hundreds of thousands did not explode on impact   data: UNMACC
It showed us really the worst case scenario
of what can happen when cluster munitions
are used on a massive scale, and in a variety of environments:
for instance, they were used in or near populated areas,
they were used in agricultural areas.
So basically it showed what the future holds
if this problem is not dealt with urgently.
The problem is the volume.
These can be delivered in the 100 and 100 of thousands
in a few hours, in millions in a few days
and these numbers, combined with the fact
that from 10 to 40 percent simply do not explode,
create a huge problem of contamination
and a huge threat to the civilian populations.
People come back to their home,
even if they weren’t there at the time of the bombing.
They see the rubble, they try to enter.
Often cluster munitions are mixed in into the rubble,
they may be found accidentally,
or people may see them and try to get rid of them.
If cluster munitions are littering a landscape,
an agricultural landscape for example,
it can be devastating for the livelihoods of individuals
who depend on those fields or orchards.
It's a precious source of income.
It's a season
and farming goes with seasons.
Now my arms are tied and I'm strangled.
I can't move.
It’s bad enough that civilians are caught up in the fighting
and suffer incredible pain, disruption,
displacement during the conflict.
But to us it is absolutely repugnant
that this killing and injuring of civilians will go on for years
or decades simply because of the choice
of the wrong weapon in an armed conflict.